Q1. Explain briefly what happens when you hit a url? explain DNS lookup

Ans. ->1You type a URL in your browser and press Enter.
       2.Browser looks up IP address for the domain.
       3.Browser initiates TCP connection with the server.
       4.Browser sends the HTTP request to the server.
       5.Server processes request and sends back a response.
       6.Browser renders the content.

Q2. What is a URLs full form? Explain what a url is and the four parts it consists of The protocol in use The hostname of the server The location of the file The arguments to the file?

Ans. -> URL stands for Uniform Resource Locator. A URL is nothing more than the address of a given unique resource on the Web. 
       each valid URL points to a unique resource. Such resources can be an HTML page, a CSS document, an image, etc. 

parts: 1) scheme -> The first part of the URL is the scheme, which indicates the protocol that the browser must use to request the resource. 
                    Usually for websites the protocol is HTTPS or HTTP. A protocol is a set method for exchanging or transferring data around a computer network
      
       2) Domain name -> The domain indicates which Web server is being requested. Usually this is a domain name, but an IP address may also be used.
       
       3) Path to resource -> A path represent a physical file location on the Web server.

       4) Parameters -> parameters are a list of key/value pairs separated with the & symbol. The Web server can use those parameters to do extra stuff before returning the resource.
      eg: http://www.facebook.com/dashboard/profile?name="Akash"  
      http -> scheme, www.facebook.com -> domain name, dashboard/profile -> path, name="Akash" -> Parameters 

Q3. What is HTTP protocol?

ans -> HTTP is a protocol for fetching resources such as HTML documents. It is the foundation of any data exchange on the Web and it is a client-server protocol, which means requests are initiated by the recipient, usually the Web browser. A complete document is reconstructed from the different sub-documents fetched, for instance, text, layout description, images, videos, scripts, and more.

Q4. What is TCP Protocol?

ans -> TCP stands for Transmission Control Protocol a communications standard that enables application programs and computing devices to exchange messages over a network. It is designed to send packets across the internet and ensure the successful delivery of data and messages over networks.

Q5. 1) GET
    The GET method is used to retrieve information from the given server using a given URI. Requests using GET should only retrieve data
     and should have no other effect on the data.

    2)HEAD
     Same as GET, but transfers the status line and header section only.
    
    3) 	POST
       A POST request is used to send data to the server, for example, customer information, file upload, etc. using HTML forms.
    
    4) PUT
       Replaces all current representations of the target resource with the uploaded content.

    5) DELETE
      Removes all current representations of the target resource given by a URI.
   
    6) CONNECT
       Establishes a tunnel to the server identified by a given URI.
    
    7) 	OPTIONS
        Describes the communication options for the target resource.
   
    8) 	TRACE
        Performs a message loop-back test along the path to the target resource.

Q6. What are HTTP headers?
 
ans -> HTTP headers let the client and the server pass additional information with an HTTP request or response. An HTTP header consists of       its case-insensitive name followed by a colon (:), then by its value. Whitespace before the value is ignored.

Q7. What are some HTTP response codes? what does it mean? 2xx, 3xx, 4xx, 5xx

ans -> 2xx successful – the request was successfully received, understood, and accepted
       3xx redirection – further action needs to be taken in order to complete the request
       4xx client error – the request contains bad syntax or cannot be fulfilled
       5xx server error – the server failed to fulfil an apparently valid request

Q8. What does cache control on http response mean?

ans -> Cache-control is an HTTP header used to specify browser caching policies in both client requests and server responses. Policies include how a resource is cached, where it's cached and its maximum age before expiring

Q9.What is polling?
 ans -> Poll the network to retrieve information from network devices that you can use to monitor the behavior of the devices

Q.10 What is long polling?

ans -> Long polling is a version of traditional polling that allows the server to send data to a client whenever available.
       